## 9. Data exfiltration techniques and their detection

In this goal our task is to detect and analyze exfiltration in pcap files.

### 9.a

Upon visually inspecting the pcap we see that there are some long DNS TXT record queries.
We filtered those out using 'dns.txt' filter. Then we went to the flag server mentioned
in task description on `192.168.1.167:8991`.

The server prompted as with several questions:

```
What was the domain used for exfiltration? (input the last part of the subdomain and the TLD, e.g. google.com)
```

The answer to this can be found by simply viewing the TXT queries. The domain ends
with securitytesting.online and that is the answer.

```
<Legolas> Which type of DNS record was used?
```

As mentioned before the queries were of TXT type.

```
<Legolas> How many queries were used for the exfiltration in total?
```

The number of filtered out txt queries from INIT to last packet is 61.

After that we received our flag:

```
<Legolas> Your friends are with you: BSY-FLAG-A09A-{...}
```

### 9.b

In this task we see pcap of dns data exfiltration again. This time we know which tool
was used [DNSExfiltrator](https://github.com/Arno0x/DNSExfiltrator) and we have the
information that password 'pass' was used.

We again filtered the packets using `dns.txt` and copied out both packets that were
used for exfiltration:

```
init.ORSXG5BOOR4HI7BR.base64.securitytesting.online: type TXT, class IN
```

and

```
Name: 0.EIu3wCinsPK_RDCVv5d-28e2TU-Ec1BHT83QblPN3mOo-L1-dXVkSPod7iTczcQ.tlULhh7p_QqO-k4FtUQ56nkbgIOkTNePAkkDmEWAggVL7hEcLJpKORiesVBGsol.AEJgjlMn2JczQo6KGqUAJ4GtnaXI3YZW7uEel8fq0kjjJvQfVhtbHHKyx9bEhJO.zxhc39atS4.securitytesting.online
```

We cloned the repository with DNSExfiltrator and modified the code a bit to decode our string with fix password
without the need to run the whole process. After extracting the result zip file
we get folder with one single file: test.txt with following content:

```
lalalala
passwords: jkgjhqgfwgefjh
```

We then proceed to the flag server again, this time running on `192.168.1.167:8992`
First question:

```
<Gimli> What is the name of the exfiltrated file?
```

we already know the answer, the extracted file is `test.txt`

```
<Gimli> What is the password inside the file?
```

Answer is in the file: `jkgjhqgfwgefjh`

Answering these two questions was enough to get the flag:

```
<Gimli> Never thought I'd die fighting side by side with an Elf: BSY-FLAG-A09B-{...}
```


